In this video, we are going to
talk about regular expression. When you're processing free-text,
we come across a lot of places where regular expressions or
patterns play a role. So, let us take an example. This is one of the tweets from the UN
spokesperson's account and this is ethics are built right into the ideals
and objectives of the United Nations. We have seen this earlier today and
then you have #UNSG. There is another little piece of text like
@ New York society for ethical culture. There's a URL there and
then two callouts to @UN and @UN_Women. So from this tweet,
if you were find out all callouts and hashtags, how would you do it? First, of course, you have to split it
on space to get these individual tokens. So, you have that. So now, you know that you have
all of these individual tokens. And now, this is in a better position
to find out where callouts are or hashtags are. Why don't you give it a try? So when you're finding out specific words,
such as callouts or hashtags, you may want to see
what patterns these hold. So for example, hashtags start with
the hash symbol or the pound sign. So, you can use something like this. You can say, w for w in text11
if w.startswith the hash symbol. Great, you get #UNSG. That's exactly what you want, great. What about callouts? Same with hashtags, you can say, callouts are strings that start with
the symbol at three, the @ symbol. So you can say, w for
w in text11 if W starts with @ and you'll get the response as @UN_Women. But there is also this @ separately. Recall that there was this @newyorksociety
and that @ as a separate token comes in. That's not really a callout. So, this doesn't really work. So now, what should we do? It's not sufficient to say that
something starts with the @. The callouts are tokens that begin with @. They have to follow
that up with something. So for example, these are valid
callouts @UN_Spokesperson or @katyperry or @coursera. So what you can see is that it's
something that has to match after @ like alphabets or numbers, or
special symbols like the underscore sign. So what you're saying is the pattern
is @ and then capital letters or small letters and number and
underscore occurring one, or more times. That is the pattern that defines callouts. So, let’s try this one out. So you have the text, text10 and
then you can split it on space and then you do just check for
first character to be @. So when you sa, text for
all words in text11 that start with @, you get @ and @UN and @UN_Women. But if you first use a regular
expression and import re, that is import a regular
expression package and say, all words where words
in text11 if re.search. That means if you can search and
find this pattern @ and then A to Za. A to Za-z0-9_ occurring
multiple times in the word, then that is a valid token and that would give you the two
callouts from that tweet. So, let's look at this callout
regular expression in more detail. We said, @ and
then we had this square bracket. That's at A to Za to z0 to 9_. And then after the square bracket,
we had a +. What does that mean? So it says that you have
to start with an @ and then just to follow one or
more times, that's what the + means. One or more times. That's at least once, but may be more of something that is
in between the square brackets. And that the one that was in between
the square brackets is any alphabet, uppercase or lowercase or
a digit or underscore and any suspicious symbol that is
allowed in a callout expression. So in this regular expression,
you saw that we used some notation and meta-characters that we're
going to define now. So in regular expressions, a dot is a wildcard character
that matches a single character. Any character, but just once. When we use the character symbol,
that indicates the start of the string. So even though not all strings start
explicitly the character sign, this character matches an empty
character at the start of the string. The counterpart of that is dollar symbol
that represents the end of the string. So if your string has a backslash end,
the dollar comes after the backslash end. So, there's a backslash end and a dollar. Dollar is truly the end of the string,
the way it represented. The square brackets matched one of
the characters that are within the square bracket. You have a to z, for example, within square bracket that rematch one
of the range of characters a, b up to z. There are some changes there when you
have square brackets, but caret abc. It means something different. It means it matches a character
that is not a or b, or c. So, it's kind of the inverse of it. So when I said that opening bracket and
closing square bracket indicates that it matches any other characters within it,
this particular expression with a character the star doesn't mean that it
matches a character, an a or a b or a c. But it says, explicitly that it is. It matches any other character,
but a, b or c. A or b would match either a or
b where a and b are themselves strings. You can use this normal braces to say,
scoping for operators. You'll use this backslash as
escape character, especially for special characters like \t and \n and
you could use special character symbols. Just like \t is for tab,
you have \b to match a word boundary. You have \d to match any digit,
any single digit 0 to 9. That's included into
square bracket 0 to 9. \d is any non-digit,
anything that is not 0 to 9. So, that's the equal interpretation there, square brackets not 0 to 9. \s is any whitespace character. That is matches space or a tab, or a new line, or \r and \f and \v. Capital S. So, \S is matches any non-whitespace
character just the way d and capital D are opposites of each other. S and
capital S are opposite of each other. Same way you have w. \w matches any alphanumeric character whereas \W matches any non-alphanumeric character, then we look at repetitions. When you have star,
that says that anything that occurs before that matches zero or more times. So, it may not happen at all or
it can happen multiple times. Once, twice, thrice or so on. If it's plus, it has to happen once. At least once, but
it can happen more than once too. If it's a question mark,
it means that it has to match once or does not match at all. So, it matches zero times or once. And now, you have these curly braces. So curly braces and n, it means it matches
exactly n times where n is more than 0. If you have curly braces three, it means that this has to match thrice and
only thrice. If it's n comma,
it means it's at least intense. And if it's comma n,
it means it's most intense. If it's a combination of
both of them m comma n, it means that it has to match at
least m times and at most n times. Let's look back at the callout expression. When we use this callout
expression using this re.search, we do get @UN, @UN_Women. But then if you say for
w when re.search that \w actually matches A-Za-z0-10_, so that would also give you the same answer, any alpha numeric symbol character. Let's look at some more examples. If you were to find some special
characters, for example, if you have the text Ouagadougou. Again, the capital city of Burkina Faso. And in order to find all vowels,
you'll say, re.findall and the regular expression in
square bracket is a, e, i, o, u and that will give you
all the vowels that are there. Same way, if you are to find out
everything that is not a vowel. That's a consonant,
then you could use the carrot a, e, i, o, u option and
that will give you g, d and g. These are the only three
consonants in Ouagadougou. So now, let's take a look at a special
case to find regular expressions for dates. Dates are unique in the sense that they
have multiple variants in free-text. Let's take a date off the top of my head. Let's say, 23rd October 2002 and look at
variants of how you could write this date. You could write as date,
month and the year. Either with a hyphen or
the slash with two digits for the year other than four. If you are in the US, then you
would use month, date, year format. You might use words for October rather than the number ten. So, 23 Oct 2002 or 23 October. And again, change the order where
you have month first before date. So, you can see that there are so
many variants and top on to other right a regular
expression to match it, and write something like this where you
have two digits with a slash or a dash, and then four digits that
are just going to match some of them. Suppose you have all of these variants,
and you use just the first four. You could use this regular expression
of two digits followed by a slash and a dash, two digits,
slash and a dash then four. And that will give you three of them, because it doesn't match the one that
said, yours could be two digits. So then, you have to fix that. So you say, it could be two digits or four
digits and then it will match all four. And then you could say, the dates it so
happen in this its October. So, it's 10. What about September and it would be nine? You have to kind of address that
as well or third of October. That will be just one single digit for
that. So in general, you have to have one or two
characters, sorry, digits for the date. One or two digits for the month and
two, or four digits for the year. That will give you all of them here, but that's more children
then what you had up here. Now let's look at the other variance
where you have October written out, spell it out. Then, you have to say that you have to
have two digits of a start, a space and then Jan, Feb, March,
April as in J-A-N and F-E-B and so on. One of them occurring, so you use this
byte symbol to indicate disjunctions between them and then you have four
digits at the end for the year. That will match just October. What happened? Shouldn't it match the whole thing? It did match the whole with the date and
so on. Well, the difference here is that
this bracket sign has two meanings. In regular expressions, when you use
the bracket, it also indicates scoping. So it says, I want to pull out only
something that matched that part. It doesn't match the whole string,
but it pulls out and gives you back only the thing that matched
between Jan, Feb, March up to December. That's what gave me October as O-C-T. For you to find and give it a test and you
say, this is a scoping operating operator, but don't pull out just
what you matched here. You use this question mark colon special
character sequence to indicate that. So when you use that, you'd get
the entire string 23 October 2002. Great, why didn't others match? Because the next string was Octobers,
spell out completely. We didn't have that and the other two had
a comma there, and we didn't have that. So if we were to somehow say that we
are going to use the same string, but then we can exchanged Oct to
October by saying, it's starts with these three characters, but
then it could have a to z multiple times. Why not a plus there? Because May is there with just May. There's nothing that follows may. So you'll have that will match
both of them between Oct, 2002 and 23 October 2002. And then finally,
we have the two remaining cases where you say that I don't necessarily
have to have data to start. I might have data at the end. So the first occurrence of date is you
have a question mark after that and then you add a date option at the end,
and then a year after that. So you have a question mark,
colon, \d(2), comma. Calculating both at the start and at the end before you have the year \d(4),
originally. That will match all four. You see that when you're
building the regular expressions, you are to keep working on them to finally
get the pattern that you'll really want. Note that all of these did not
handle this third October case or 23rd of September case, so you have to do
all of that with one or two Digits for the date and the month. So, that has to change. And in fact, you may also want
to do a \d(2) comma 4 for the year if that is a pattern
that you want to fix. Great.
So, what did we learn? In this video,
we learned about regular expressions. We saw what they are. Why they are useful. What are the regular
expression meta-characters and how do you build a regular
expression to identify dates. But in general, to identify any particular
pattern string that you want to identify. In next videos, we are going to see more information about how do you handle other
variance of text that you're using.