Edward Tufte is a seminal figure on how
to design visual displays of quantitative information. In fact, this is the title of
my favorite book of his, and I highly encourage you
to check out his work. In this book, he introduces two
interesting graphical heuristics, the data-ink ratio and chart junk. First, what's a heuristic? A heuristic is a process or rule that is
meant to guide you in decision making. Is by definition not known to be optimal
or perfect, but to be practical in nature. Heuristics are meant to be followed until
you've a reason to deviate from them. Tufte's first graphical
heuristic is data-ink ratio. Tufte defines data-ink as
the non-erasable core of a graphic. The non-redundant ink arranged in response
to variation in the numbers represented. In other words, the data-ink is essential
to the sense-making process for a given variable. Tufte defines the data-ink
ratio as the amount of data-ink divided by the total ink
required to print the graphic. Now I don't think that he's actually
suggesting we measure the amount of ink laid down on the page, but
instead is suggesting that we remove those elements which don't add new
information to the graphic. Perhaps one of the best known examples
showing data-ink reduction was done by Darkhorse Analytics,
an information, visualization, and design company in Edmonton,
Alberta, Canada. They've put together four examples of
how the data-ink ratio can be approved. And I'm going to link to those
in the next reading assignment. But I'm going to walk through
the first one of those here. We start with the table of
the data about food items and the number of calories in those items. The first step is to remove
unwanted background imagery since it provides no value
to understanding the chart. We also remove the gray background
behind the bars since it provides no conceptual value. Then we get rid of
the redundancy throughout. This includes getting rid of the legend, since each bar is labeled
directly along the x-axis. The title in the y-axis labels are
trimmed, since there's plenty of reference throughout the image to this being
about calories for food items. This leaves us with a much smaller image. There are some heavy lines forming
borders which add no value, so we can remove them too. Color is a tricky item to
include in charts and graphs. We won't be going into depth on
color theory in this course. But color is a challenge when trying
to engage with persons who might be color vision deficient or color blind. There are some tactics to work around. For instance, it used to be best practice
to replace coloration with patterns, sometimes called hatching in graphics. This brings its own challenges,
which we'll see in a bit. Instead, the solution is almost always
to remove all color, except for one which you can use as emphasis and
link to that color in your text. Someone then viewing a chart out of
context would still get the sense of emphasis without being
overwhelmed by a rainbow of data. So let's drop colors except for bacon, with the presumption that this text
is clearly referenced in the data. Three-dimensional bars and drop shadows can go as well,
since these don't add extra value. We could also drop the bolding throughout. There's still a lot of gridwork
left in this image and it's a bit unclear what the value of this
gridwork is, so we're going to drop it. Now grids can be valuable, but
they're often just a distraction. For the moment though, study the image. What's the difference in the number
of calories between bacon, our data point of interest, and
say, potato chips or chili dogs? Just removing the lines doesn't
make it easier to read. But the values of the data
are pretty simple here. So let's directly label
each bar in the graphic. Now, how big is the difference
between bacon and potato chips or bacon and chili dogs? Certainly, you have to do a bit of math,
but you can still get a quick estimate by glancing at the graphic, and an exact
value through comparing numbers directly. And there you have it. By increasing the data-ink ratio, we have
made the graphic not only simpler and more readable, but increased the amount
of information the viewer sees. I encourage you to check out the other
examples from Darkhorse Analytics linked in the next reading. As they've done this clean up for a variety of different
visuals including maps. We'll continue our exploration of Tufte's
heuristics by looking at chart junk in the next lecture.