Hello there, and welcome back. Another form of market research
is observational research, that would be a situation where
you're observing behavior. Forms of observational research could be
as simple as counting the number of cars in the parking lot, or looking at their license plates to
see what states are coming from. In today's modern age, it could also be
counting or observing website activity. This is used less frequently,
but it's valuable in some cases, such as in the retail shopping experience,
or with digital behavior. At the end of this lesson, you will be
able to consider when observational research might be valuable to your client,
let me start with an example. I recently had an experience where
I discovered I was the subject of observational research. I was on a Katy Trail in Missouri
riding bicycles on a recent vacation, and we blew tires up
between the three of us. Along the way in key spots we kept
running into these cameras on the trail. We found out later that they were counting
us to find a number of people on different trails, that's observational
research right there. In terms of retail transactions, there's been a number of experts out there
that have measured how they can increase retail sales by changing the environment
that the person shops in. Let's take an example of a Hallmark store,
when you go into a Hallmark store, you often buy a Christmas
ornament at Christmas time. And you've heard music and
it creates a better experience for you. And these observational researchers
quickly learned that when you start pumping in evergreen smells, it also makes the retail experience
a better experience for you. There's a lot of market research
studies that will test these behaviors. That will see how they
influence retail purchases. They'll watch overall people traffic and
they'll watch people's behaviors through different stimuli or
different interactions. There are also people, or
market research companies, or technologies that study digital footage
in terms of the retail experience. As a result, they know where to place
kiosks or point of presence displays in specific areas,
based on analysis of people traffic. There's a lot of science behind
the whole retail experience, and a lot of it is based off
observational research. You can also do observational
research of digital behavior, this includes web analytics or
social media experiences. Some debate whether this is actually
secondary research, but if you're observing customer behavior, it really
does fall under observational research. There coud be overlap in
the way people categorize it. You can set up an experiment
to look at your website and observe how people shop in the whole
web useability experience. And all the clicks and time they
spend on your website in each page. When you have an online store your
digital interface is your store front. If you had a storefront in
downtown Sacramento and you could actually count people going by,
you can count people that come up to your window, you can count people
that come up to your door. Now the website is the same thing. There are technologies obviously
where you can count people, and there are technologies now
that let you know who people are. And you can actually reverse engineer to
find out where they're coming from and what behaviors and demographics they hold. You're actually watching and observing
how people behave in your digital space. You're observing where they go, where
they click, and how long they stay there. There are market research groups here that
will test different images, different positions, and basically do consumer
tests similar to that they would have done in a face to face setting, but using
digital communication technology instead. You can design websites and
mobile sites to do the same thing. There are a number of market research
groups that specialize in this, but the whole digital side of things, if applied correctly, fits the definition
of observational research. Some people will describe a mystery
shopper as being part of observational research, I categorize it
under primary research. When you're mystery shopping, you're going into a business and
you're making transactions, or purchases, or interactions where you're
observing what actually happens. However, you're also engaging in
collecting information along the way, you're influencing the other party. That's why I see it as going beyond
the bounds of strictly observational. So to summarize, observational research
involves observing behavior of customers or perspective customers,
to answer business question or provide information to
solve a business problem.