Welcome back. So now let's switch gears and discuss
how to package your plan or proposal. Adhering to professional standards is
very important to your overall packaging. It's similar to what I
said about the title page. You want to lay out your document
in such a way that it creates a particular impression. Think of the packaging as a sales and
marketing of your research. How you package your piece demonstrates
your understanding of your potential client, as well as the potential audience
that you're going to do research on. After this lesson, you'll be able to
create and submit a package proposal or plan to your client that will
showcase your professionalism. Let's begin. There are many things you can do to
package your proposal either better or differently or in a way that's
more appealing to the client. It's persuasion tactics and researchers
don't typically like to do that. The business development
people do like to do that. I think every proposal must have
good content, good flow and good storytelling but
it has to go beyond that. How a company puts it together to be
persuasive to get an advantage and to communicate with very closely
with a potential client all matters. There's an art involved here. And the packaging and organization of the
proposal is where the art comes into play just as the science in methodology and
researched it earlier. You need to understand the reader and
build the story, telling it in steps. It maybe called a simple
art of persuasion but this persuasion really needs
to be delivered in strategic. How a researcher uses logos,
fonts and graphics and even colors, is very important. Ultimately, style and
format need to support the story and plan. It needs to enhance and
not distract from the story. Each situation's different though. You may see a potential client or
decision maker as a visual learner and you may want to use more graphics. In another situation, you might see a
potential client as being very scientific or academic, and you may need to structure
your proposal in a more rigid scientific manner leveraging the methodology
section more than the entire story. Researchers often underestimate
the importance of the story in packaging, relying on confidence that
they have the best science. But you need excellence across the board. Of course, you will need to make sure
that you've followed directions and addressed the expectations
of the potential client. They are expecting accuracy and
answers under the constraints. You have a plan or methodology in mind and
you know how you might do it. Now, you need to communicate
in the most effective way. You need to, at minimum,
follow directions and then place it into a design style or
format. Style and
format are really the preferences or brand of the researcher or company. Most importantly, your proposal or
plan must be free of errors. Errors are the enemy of researchers and
error undermines your credibility. It's like having an error on your
resume when applying for a job. It will almost always
disqualify the proposal. So put a process in place to make
sure that there are zero errors. You can also use standard book editing
type of error extracting, proofing and copy checking or the like. It's a bit more challenging when
delivering scientific content. Many researchers put
together the methodology but fail to focus on the format. Researchers tend to be quantitative in
nature, but don't let that be an excuse of falling short, in terms of excellence
in packaging your written document. That causes clients to lose confidence in
your ability to collect information, and analyze information. So use a quality control process worthy of
any publication or print piece that leaves an organization, or
is about ready to leave an organization. You should never underestimate
the value of editing, even if it is a simple research plan. Every research plan or proposal needs to
go through this rigorous process that any organization goes through when
it releases a public document.