Hello there. Now, let's shift gears and discuss some
pros and cons of both secondary and internal research. While these kinds of research have
a lot to offer, there are pitfalls or weaknesses to consider. After this lesson, you'll be able to
recognize these pros and cons for both types of research and
apply these considerations while working with a client for
a more comprehensive market analysis. So let's start with secondary research. There are many pros and
cons of secondary research. Individuals in the organizations choose
to incorporate secondary research into their market research and
plans for many reasons. These may include seeking to
see the picture, problem or situation from a different angle,
typically from a big picture perspective. They choose to use secondary research also
because it is usually less costly and quick, especially in this digital age. Secondary research can also
provide the researcher or organization with a wider net
that may yield new information. While secondary research can have great
value in broadening the researcher or organization's perspective, it does come
with potential flaws, short comings, or weaknesses. Some of the problems with secondary
research include the quality of information, the time frame
of the information, and lack of connection to
the original business problem. There are differences in
secondary research and as a result the quality differs. Factors such as how the research was done,
who did it, when they did it, and how they did it,
can greatly impact the overall quality. Any secondary research was probably
done with a specific purpose in mind. It could have been done recently,
or years earlier. As a result, this research needs to be assessed
as to whether it could be helpful. And if so, how it might help or guide
the researcher in preparing a plan or contributing to final results. Like secondary research, internal research
can be helpful and potentially harmful. Internal research that the organization
has can help better understand the situation, history or processes. However, it may also reinforce
problems of the past with a dismissive attitude that
says we've tried that before. Internal research also has
the potential to bias, limit or constrain newer approaches or
inhibit research efforts. However, the benefits often outweigh
the weaknesses or limitations. That's why it's important
to weigh the pros and cons. There are two reasons why individuals or
organizations would incorporate internal and secondary research
into the planning process. First, it elevates the quality and
thinking of the anticipated research. Secondly, it positions the market research
professional as being proactive and a knowledgeable business consultant. Internal and
secondary research expands your vision. You can have relationships where
people bring business problems to you. And you could work within the context and formulate a plan that potentially
could work out just fine. However, the more information you bring
into the process where they give you information, you gather information,
the more expand your thinking. From a methodology and
information standpoint, you have more tools designed
to solve the business problem. Somebody could say, open up this can
of beans and just give you a knife. That's okay, you could open up
the can of beans with the knife. However, a can opener would be best. The more effective tools you have, the better you'll be able to accomplish
this task at hand effectively. Internal and secondary research
provides effective tools for you to address business questions and
problems. More information equals more options. It allows you to look at
things from a different angle. This enlarged vision should make
the process even easier and more insightful, and should result
in having less chance of error. So that's how it elevates
the quality of your thinking. Let me address how the initial phase of
a project allows the market researcher or analyst to demonstrate being proactive and
knowledgeable. You probably won't see
this in any textbook. At many times, a potential client
will come to you with the problem. At least it's what they
assume is the problem. Their attitude is,
we need to solve this problem, I don't care about anything else,
just solve the problem for me. It is a researcher's responsibility
to understand the marketplace and not just solve the problem based
on what the client told them. At that point, you're limited by
inputs the client has given you. Maybe they've asked you to do
a customer satisfaction survey. You could just deliver what they assumed
will take care of the problem or you could do something proactive by
looking at multiple sources of data or better information, by looking at a big
picture and trying to reduce risk and by gathering more information, so
you can make a better decision. When you're proactive you
become more knowledgeable. You might discover insights and solve
problems the client didn't realize it had. In my career, I've met a lot of researchers who
put everything in the same box. That's the way they've been taught and that's the way they're going to
do it in a certain way. However, our world changed so
much that I think it's to a researcher and a client's benefit to always be able
to challenge initial assumptions and look at things through a new lens. I have to keep challenging myself today, in terms of today's market,
new impacts and new things in society. The field of market research is
expanding rapidly, there are pros and cons of doing this through internal and
secondary research. However, exploring the market fully
during the initiation phase and doing the extra work provided
provides value your client needs. As a professional in this field, I encourage those I mentioned
to do more than the minimum and aim to answer the business question and
solve the real business problem, even if your research has to uncover
the real problem before solving it.