Welcome back. Suppose that you've received your market
research inquiry, or a request for a proposal, and
you've identified the constraints. You've asked good questions and
you've collected baseline information or internal research. As a next step, the person or
organization making the inquiry or positing the RFP will expect a response. You'll want your response to be
appropriate and professional. That's what we'll address in this lesson. After this lesson, you'll be able to list the key steps in
managing the market research response and describe the importance of communications
in responding to a research inquiry. Let's begin. Now that you've asked the right questions,
learn more about the problem or opportunity and learn more about
the client's organization, it's time to start mapping out a plan. The client has come to you for
expertise and now you have to prepare your responses. You need time to process all you've
learned and prepare a formal response. The type of inquiry often dictates
how much time you have and in the format in which
you should communicate. Regardless, here's the minimum
you need to let them know. You'll be presenting a formal plan, if it is a government RFP there
are likely clear instructions. In a business request you have
an opportunity to tell them what you will be sending them such as a code sheet,
short memo style proposal, or an in depth proposal or plan. Let them know it will take a specified
time for you to prepare the plan. In an RFP process,
there are likely to be milestones. However, when you get a business
market research request, clients usually prefer your
response to be fast and good. Those two don't necessarily coexist
together, those who are requesting a proposal are likely to expect
a response within a few days to a week. However, in today's digital world
expectation times can become less. If a researcher takes too long, the prospective client may judge
that to represent their work speed. The client also expects a document to be
error free, which usually takes more time. So set the expectations for your response. Let them know that your plan will have
a methodology, timeline, team members, and a cost. These are essential components
that address basic or foundational research requests. These also provide an opportunity for you to excel or
establish credibility and ability. The client who has extensive research
experience may want to get under the hood a little bit. Therefore, your proposal may also
detail how you are going to implement the methodology. Your response to a market research request
may also have supportive materials. These can include references,
examples of your work, team bios, and other appendices. Again, this provides you another
opportunity to demonstrate credibility and ability. Researchers often overlook the importance
of communication during the proposal and planning process. Market research is liken to a snapshot
of a situation at a certain time. Think of how you communicate
during the proposal process as being like a movie trailer. It should be an attractive preview
of how you will work together that gains buy in from the client. Simple yet important things are learned
in the communications process. These include whether or
not the client and the research company can work together. The communications process reveals
whether the research company, or individual has the expertise
the organization needs. The client will be assessing
your communications to determine if they think you have
potential to be high quality, fast or even creative enough
in finding a solution. Will you provide the customer
service level that they need? In some cases, it's all about fit. What and how you communicate helps all
involved see if it will be a good fit. With a written response,
such as our sample research proposal or report, you need to ask yourself,
does it have the style or format that the organization needs? Does it represent or
showcase your work well? Does what you deliver in writing
adequately represent the end product for the client? You should also consider
the role of verbal communication. How important will calling
back to ask questions or establish rapport be in the process? All of these are important in
the communication process. Once all of this is established, you need
to set clear expectations with the client. You do this by asking questions
of the perspective client, such as, is it okay if we contact
you if we have any questions? Do you prefer we do so
via email or a telephone call? Are you looking for
our response by a specific date? Their answer to this could dictate
whether you could respond adequately with the response they need. The response can also dictate whether
then they get the short or long response. You should also be prepared to deliver
your market research plan in various ways. In most cases, they'll want a print or
electronic proposal or response. But there is an occasional need to create
a live presentation of your response. The mode of response expected
needs to be clear as well. If it is a government or business
bidding process, there may also be a compilation of questions asked during
the proposal preparation process. You may want to ask if your
questions will be made public. Ultimately, you have to draw a line
in the sand and stick to it. You need to be firm in your timeline and
format and follow through. How well you deliver your market
research plan in whatever format is a sample of the final product. That wraps up our lesson on responding
to the market research inquiry and formulating a proper response. You should now be able to list the key
steps involved in the market research planning process and describe the importance of communications
in responding to a research inquiry. This also concludes this module. I'll see you next time.