All right, you've done everything
right and now the award is being made. And guess what, you've won it. If it's a government award, then you
likely most have received a formal legal letter or electronic communication
to which you need to compose a response. However, if it is from business or
industry, you may get a telephone call or email with congratulations and
instructions on how to move forward. Regardless of how you received the award
communication, there are few action steps to consider, such as reconnecting with
the client, reaffirming the objectives, formalizing any changes, assigning the
team of point of contact, getting through administrative details, setting a timeline
and addressing other legal requirements. I will elaborate more on
all of these steps so that after this lesson you will be able to
consider an apply these actions in your future research proposal processes. Let's start by reconnecting
with the client. You won the project now what? There's often a big difference between
the RFP process, the proposal process and actual implementation. The teams may totally change. The person issuing the proposal or
issuing the RFP or the request for research may not be involved with
the project once it is implemented. And the person presenting the proposal or
the research plan to the potential client may not be the person that's
actually going to work on it. Once the award has been made, it is
important to get the right players around the phone or around the table
because if it is different people, you've gotta get the right people,
talk to the right individuals right away. Many times,
especially with governments and universities, the manager of
procurement will issue the RFP and if you have questions,
you've gotta go through this person. It's only because they want to
keep it objective and clean. You'll never actually talk to the end
clients until the award is given. When the award has been granted, all the players are legally
allowed to work with each other. On the business side,
the same thing often happens, where somebody like the director of operations
or marketing will seek proposals. They'll get them back and select them, then the director of marketing will
hand them off to a research assistant, marketing assistant or marketing person,
or even the director of quality and so on. The research team whose totally
new to it will be assigned and they've got a lot of important
information to work through. They also have a number of
relationships to re-establish. They also need to get
the parameters straight. They've gotta make sure that
the proposal matches, or is accepted. And that there's buy-in from the client
because a lot could have changed between the proposal creation in the beginning
of the actual research project. A client may need to articulate that this
is no longer what they're looking for. We're actually looking for
something more like this. Somewhere along the way, there needs
to be some kind of official memo or just a brief statement for the client
to say, we agree with your proposal or your timeline, please move ahead. There needs to be something
fairly formal there. That leads to your next point. You have to reaffirm the objectives. You've got to make sure that
you're on the same page and that what you promised them from the
budget in the time frame is what they need and what they expect to pay and
when they expect to get it. It's really a meeting of minds and
managing expectations. And then you have to
formalize any changes. You've got new team members, you've built
rapport, you've got the parameters set, and you've built some buy-in. It's like building a house, or
building an addition onto your house. You have a contracting team, they propose
something and all the sudden somebody says, yeah well structurally we want to
add on this roof and this garage here. And then you start making changes to it,
and some of these changes are significant. All these details and differences need
to be accounted for, if not tracked. The same holds for the research
proposal in the plan to move forward. You need to account for
changes and differences, and you need to seek agreement. Next is assigning the team and
points of contact. Typically, you'll ask your client if
they've assigned their project manager or their day to day contact that you'll
be interacting and communicating with. You'll need somebody to
work with on the details. It's them, or
somebody from their team, but they need to officially
assign them to you. You'll also need to
officially assign your team. You, of course, already proposed your
team, but since the proposal process, it could have been several months, and
things may have changed there, as well. You either need to confirm that your
team is still working on this project, or you need to confirm somebody else, or you need to basically restate your
team in some manner or fashion. This is usually done by email or
some written communication process. It's not part of a contract, but it's typically some sort of formal
communication, or agreement, or buy in. Then you need to get through
the administrative details. This is different for each client. For some folks, it's very simple. They just give you the green light. You get the official green light
through an e-mail to move ahead. They've agreed upon all your terms. And you just fly with the research. And then you submit an invoice
once it's all done and through. In the case of government proposals, you're going to have different
relationship, where it's going to be in your best interests to at least have
an email or written communication. To see who is assigned to you,
when they're going to pay you, and their acknowledgement of that timeline
that you presented to them originally. You're going to want to have
a little bit of a paper trail here, even in an informal way. It could be as simple, or
it could be very complicated. We have to sign contracts,
agreements, memos and change orders. Especially on the government
research side, you usually have to do a lot
of administrative work. Ultimately, the amount any type of
administrative work you need to complete to get the project going depends
on the project, the client, and the industry sector.