Hello, in this lesson we are going to
discuss the importance of secondary and internal research in the planing process. You see, secondary and
internal research can be helpful in your research response to both
internal and external clients. It helps shape the big picture and
puts the business problem and research opportunity into perspective. Plus it can give you context and
an orientation. Secondary or internal research can provide
a baseline and can often be free or relatively a low cost to conduct. By the end of this lesson, you'll be
able to show the importance of these two types of research in
your planning process. Now let me tell you what I think
when I say, desk research. For many years, the term desk research
interchangeably with secondary research, I believe it to be a combination of
secondary and internal research. I interpret desk research to mean, you don't have to collect information from
your subjects, you can do it at your desk. While this implies secondary research,
internal research such as a company complaint log or web
analytics can be studied from one's desk. Secondary and internal research are
important to the planning process because they allow you to expand your vision. Otherwise, you're working
with a problem and you're confined to being
within that problem. Secondary research opens
up your field of vision. You see things that other people have
done and you actually get statistics and data that help frame the problem or
the opportunity. The same thing with internal research here
is that you get a better context of what the situation is in times where
a client will tell you that they need to stop the bleeding such as,
we're losing market share. We need to stop the bleeding, so we
need market research to figure that out. Internal research will give you a better
assessment in terms of what could be going on around this problem. It could also give you some
other assets that they've done. They could have done research two years
ago, or implemented a new CRM system. Or you might find some new data, such as
some web analytic data, that will help reinforce the problem or identify new
opportunities or new ways to look at it. These two pieces put together can
really expose a better picture or avoid blind spots in terms of how
a researcher needs to plan down the line. It's more information, basically. A researcher gets information and
tries to extrapolate and give a client a better plan. But when the client gives them very
minimal data, they really don't know. When that happens, the choices are few. And so when they get internal or conduct secondary research, it helps fill
in the blanks in terms of determining, is there a better way to do this or being
able to understand the environment better. You can also gather secondary
research to establish a baseline. There are lots of examples, somebody could
say, we want to launch a new product and so we need the market research. And as a result, they come to you
with this hypothesis, this question, this opportunity and
you can actually just go out there, and you can just start
measuring the market place. However, when you gather internal and
secondary research, you may quickly find out that even before
the market research process has started, there may or may not be as many
opportunities as they think. For example, imagine somebody
who might want to start up a new online education program
in a specific discipline. You go find out that in their market
place there's not enough people to even support such a program,
that helps form their decision. You cannot just do a survey as
a methodology in that case. You might actually go right to
the employer to find out whether or not they would actually have
a significant market share. At times a client might approach you with
the intention to add new products based on less than scientific data. It may be a hunch, or based on apparent
trends that have not really been tested. Let me give you a real example. We had a client come up to us and she said, we want to launch a graduate
certificate in crime scene management. Her hypothesis was, my faculty believe
that there is a place for this, because we have some of the greatest
experts at our institution. And we're very well connected
with the legal community, and they want to see more
discipline around this field. She also said that, and the students
would be very, very interested in it. We offer a number of criminology courses. What's going on in my head here is asking
the question, is this really a matter of what the marketplace looks like,
and will this work? The objective here was to find better
target market information, and they wanted market research to identify
what the marketing message could be. So I'm thinking to myself that this
is really too trendy or CSI or NCIS or every other show like that. So when we went out there and
ultimately did some market research, we actually ended up finding out
through internal research and secondary research that we conducted,
it was a highly specialized field. And their approach was
an interdisciplinary one toward crime scene management. The problem was that,
after we had done the reasearch, we determined that this would
not be a good program because a lawyer would not be interested in it
because they already have a law degree. They don't need a science degree
on top of that for their job. We also learned that, for
something in this field to be successful, you really need to have
a master's degree and a graduate certificate which
was proposed would not work. The only audience that it would
have potentially appealed to would have been some members of
the law enforcement community. So then we looked at the law enforcement
community in terms of a specific profile, and there was not enough of the them in
the marketplaces to justify a program. The secondary research provided
some insight around market size. Ultimately, it helped shape us in doing
some in depth interviewing as opposed to wide surveying our target population
because we needed to know among the decision makers, whether or
not this program was a good idea. So to wrap up, the big picture here was
initially, what's our marketing message, and what target markets
should we target this to? As we went through and gathered the little internal research we
got and the secondary research we found. We formulated a different plan for
our market research. A quantitative survey wouldn't
have helped us because there was a lot of fragmentation. Ultimately, it became a opinion
leader type of survey. An interview with 12 to 15 decision
makers in the legal law enforcement and science community. The secondary research basically
dictated a different path and that shows the value of
performing secondary and internal research before beginning
the market research process.