Congratulations, you have successfully
submitted your research plan or proposal. So you might be thinking,
what do I do next? Many researchers tend to be a bit more
introverted than other professionals, and the natural inclination would be to wait
until the client reaches out to you. However, there are some follow up strategies that may help speed up
the process as long as they're permitted. Following up sounds simple, but
it should be thought through and applied based on how you
assess the potential client. If you feel that follow up is
permitted and won't work against you, then there are both active and
passive ways of following up. In some cases,
government RFPs may discourage or not allow follow up at all,
so you need to respect that. Also, there may be times
where follow up can hurt you. You should read the RFP
instructions carefully to help you determine if follow up is allowed,
and if so, whether it is warranted. After this lesson, you'll be able
to apply some best practice tips to help you with the follow up
strategy with a potential client. Now remember, you might not be
able to do these all the time. So again, know what the rules are for
your particular situation. Okay, let's get started. Now, I don't know if it's my own biases,
but it appears to me that researchers
are generally not good salespeople. And they tend to be a little bit more
introverted unless they have a director of business development, or somebody
that's in charge of business development. They often don't follow
up on their proposals. It's a win or lose situation, but they don't do anything to move
the needle more in their favor. I think an organization should
have a follow up strategy. What are they allowed to do under
the guidelines of an RFP process? If there's no RFP process, can they read
the client well enough to say without being a pest, I can easily
follow up with a passive email? If you follow up and you catch a potential
client off guard with a telephone call, that can be a kiss of death. Passive techniques can include a follow
up email or written thank you card. It could also be additional information or samples of work that you didn't already
include in the original proposal or plan,. It could also be related items or
thoughts, such as an article about a related topic,
you can open up a door. You can gain points by
doing a good proposal. You can gain points by packaging
it a particular way, that it reads really nicely, or something about your
proposal looks good or feels good. You could potentially get more points by
caring, and by caring I want to make sure you receive this proposal,
if you have any questions let me know. You're not talking down to them or
anything, you're just inviting them to
a phone conversation with you. I think just the caring element alone,
whether or not the client actually returns the follow up,
can help your proposal suddenly stand out. There are three potential outcomes. One, you win the project if you're
an external provider of research, and that's a good thing. And then there are certain things that you
need to do as a result to keep improving and developing the relationship. Two, you could also lose it, and there's
probably things that you can do to be professional, such as thanking them for
considering you. And the third is that you never
hear back from them again. The never hear back from
them again piece is easy. I think it's an uncomfortable thing for
them to tell you that you lost, but it doesn't hurt to request
an explanation of why you lost, whether or not you heard from the client again or
not. My experience tells me that if I
ask why we didn't get the bid or the project,
about half the times they'll tell me. And if nothing else,
I'll send them an email thanking them for the opportunity, and
we'd love to know why we didn't win. Sometimes I hear back. If you do get a response,
it can be a very informative lesson, and should help you improve your next
proposal and make it stronger. You also want to continue to make efforts
in developing the relationship even if you lost. You might include them on
a newsletter list or email list, or with marketing efforts. I always believe that even if you lose,
you could potentially win in the future. I always felt like, okay, if you lost then there will probably
be other opportunities in the future. It may come six months later or
six years later. You can stay connected very easily and
be a resource in their future. We live in an environment where
information changes very quickly. You may have an opportunity to return
to the client with a different project down the line. I just think that every good researcher
that has a sales and marketing strategy should take these potential clients and
include them on marketing efforts, or send them reminders and
thank you cards for the opportunity. And just show that there's
no hard feelings and that you'd welcome another
opportunity some other time. You've invested into potentially
doing their research project, and even though you didn't win the bid,
the organization knows you now, and I think that can give you a great
advantage on the next project. So, be careful, but consider what
appropriate follow up would be for any given client without overburdening or cluttering the potential
client's email box. Adding value to the proposal or plan after
you've sent it along could be beneficial to the process and any future
decisions to move forward or not.