Welcome back. There are a lot of people out
there doing surveys and saying, this is market research. However, being able to conduct a survey
does not make one a market researcher. It's like saying that just because
I can draw, took an art class, or can use Photoshop a little bit, means that
I'm qualified to be a graphic designer. Market research isn't just about
doing a survey, it's so much more. In this lesson, we will consider
services a market researcher should be able to provide,
the roles they fill, and essential qualities they should
bring to the profession. Let's dive in. >> Sometimes market research is
solving the business problem or gathering the needed data. Sometimes a situation calls for
a market research professional. That person would be equipped to do
the survey, collect the information, but brings a far broader array of services and
comprehensive expertise. Here are the services a market research
should be prepared to deliver. Create a credible and reliable research
plan, manage relationships with stakeholders, manage expectations
of what market research can do. Select and use the right tools for
data collection and analytics, effectively communicate the findings,
so the organization can move forward. The market research process
isn't necessarily easy. A market researcher has to
assume many different roles and wear many hats in the process. Market researchers play
the role of a listener, in that they have to understand
the business problem. An inquisitor, in that they
have to ask the hard questions. A scientist,
in that they need to place a reliable and believable process around an experiment. A planner and a manager,
in that they must plan the steps so that the information
collected can be analyzed. They also play the role of an analyst, in that they need to take what was
collected and turn it into insight. A communicator, in that they can clearly
communicate the answers found through market research to the stakeholders. They also have to communicate with many
other parties, including vendors, and those in the C-suite and others. And the C-suite could be leaders,
senior leaders in an organization. Lastly, they become an adviser
to decision makers, in that they need to bridge
the gap between the experiment and the business problem to help
the client make an informed decision. There are also essential qualities
a market researched must have to excel in this profession. The market researcher must be honest,
objective, resourceful in matching the market research tool to the need,
organized, and lastly, trustworthy. Your work should be essentially
error-free, make one mistake and you might be forgiven, make two and
clients won't believe your findings. Errors create a hole that
cannot be easily plugged. So remember, market research encompasses
expertise in delivering a broad array of services, many roles and
essential qualities. As you develop in all these areas, you
will increase your ability to advance in a profession that is growing
to be in demand more and more. That concludes this lesson on roles and
qualities of the market researcher. You should now be able to explain the role
that the market researcher plays in the process, and qualities he or
she should have to remain professional and trustworthy, while helping
organizations make key decisions.