Welcome back. We've gone through defining market
research, examining its tangible elements, and common market research tools. However, there are things that textbooks,
market research software sites, or other resources don't tell you. In this lesson,
I will address several important parts of the market research process
that may be overlooked. These include how the request is made, and who this mysterious
market research person is. The market researcher is one who has
the needed information or can get what is needed to improve the business situation
or address the business problem. So after this lesson, you will be able
to describe a typical request for market research, list common forms
of market research requests, explain who makes them and why. Let's get started. First, let's talk about how
the request is often made. If it is internal, there's usually
a product development team, marketing group or senior level management
team struggling to find something out. They know either who
the researcher is internally, or who gets it done, like a marketing person. If it is a government or formal business
process, then there's often a request for a proposal, often referred to as an RFP. This happens a lot at the government,
state or municipal level, but also with non-profits or businesses that
are used to a highly structured process. This process allows an organization
to compare proposals more consistently against each other. Here's what a government RFP for
market research might look like. If the request comes to
a market research company or a professional through a business
source then someone got your name, did a Google search, saw some
advertising or was referred to you. In such cases the inquiry process usually
starts with an email or telephone call. Now let's talk about who makes
the inquiry for market research. Experience shows that
the person making the request can hold many different
positions in an organization. These positions include the CEO or
president, engineers or product developers, product managers,
marketers at the senior, managerial or associate level, market research analysts,
chief financial officer or CFO's, and customer service managers. There are also people and
professionals who love market research. This include public relations managers,
journalists and politicians. Now let's consider not only who is making
request, but the why behind their request. Here is a list of who may be making
a market research request along with why they are making it. An engineer or product development team
trying to figure out what product features to focus on, or
to gain a competitive advantage. A marketing person trying to determine
how to gain more awareness or comprehension to get more people
to purchase their product. They may not be sure the strategic or creative approach is doing
what it is supposed to do. A senior leader or finance person who
wants to reverse declining market share. He or she is uncertain as to what
the problem is with their product, or what might be happening
with the competition. There's often uncertainty or a missing piece of the puzzle that
is keeping them from moving forward. When an organization or
individual comes to a fork in the road, where they must make a business decision,
market research can provide better or additional information
indicating which path to choose. That wraps up our look at
the initial request for research. You should now be able to describe
a typical request for market research, list common forms of market research
requests, explain who makes them and why.