Welcome back. Now, let's focus on market
research surveys of various kinds. If you decide to do quantitative research, you'll most likely use surveys
as part of your research plan. If you're looking to quantify a problem
here, you've got to measure it. You have to collect information
on the primary side. Surveys are the most
popular way to do this. And surveys can be done in so
many different ways. There are pros and
cons of doing surveys in a particular way. However, surveys are one of
the most common solutions, especially now in this digital age. After this lesson, you will be able to
identify which tools you want to work with and conduct the survey for
your quantitative research. Let's get started. In the past decade Internet Surveys have by far become the most
common form of survey research. Before that, while still in use today,
telephone surveys were used most often. Of course there are face to face and
mail or paper and pencil survey approaches as well, but Internet Surveys
are obviously very easy to conduct. Internet Surveys can be done with
an organization's email or they can be conducted via an Internet research panel
like Research Now our Survey Sampling where individuals are paid for their time
and effort to participate in surveys. While there are Strengths and
Weaknesses in every research tool, many organizations trade off
the Weaknesses in favor of benefits. Internet surveys may have some biases, but are often far more affordable
than other approaches. Surveys can be used in many situations. They are a great tool when you know
something can be measured, and the respondent is willing to participate. Data can be quantified in opportunities
extrapolated from what the data says from a quantitative perspective, which can be
valuable in the decision making process. Also, there are opportunities
to segment the data and compare with other segments or
with past research. The ability to compare is
a valuable benefit of surveys. I would recommend a survey over
another methodology when I need clear, definitive, quantitative results here and
I need a number, basically. Or I need a number I can compare against
a different segment of the population. Or I need a number that could be compared against a similar survey
over a period of time. I talked about Net Promoter Score
earlier in the course. A Net Promoter Score would
be part of the survey. It's basically a handful of questions that
can be asked to come up with a score that can be compared against
another's Net Promoter Score. There's a lot of Net Promoter research
on the Internet right now, and it's published out there. And you could actually compare
your Net Promoter Score against an industry average for
the industry that you work in, or even specific companies who
publish their Net Promoter Score. There are companies that are very
religious about their Net Promoter Scores. They track them over time to make
sure they don't move down or they try to influence
them by moving them up. They also look at
Net Promoter Scores by segment. They may want to see what young people
say compared to maybe what boomers say or give them for a Net Promoter Score. And so
the only way you can actually quantify and compare accurately is by
using a survey method. You can't do it qualitatively because
there's just too much wiggle room and too much margin of error. You would consider using a survey
if the respondent group or sample members can easily and
accurately answer the questions. Making survey questions that can
easily be understood by the public can be challenging. You've got to assume a 5th grade level of
education when writing your questions. Your wording should be done in a way
where a person easily understands if they read it or if it's read to them. A 5th grade level education
will cover about 98 or 99% of the US population,
in terms of understanding. This is a guideline when
writing survey questions. There's a lot of debate about
designing a good question and there needs to be care and consideration
about designing a good question. Most people will design a survey question
with the population or target in mind. However, when you design a survey
question to make it easy to understand, there are a lot of rules to follow. There are rules regarding use
of active and passive voice. There are rules around
simplifying compound questions. You shouldn't include jargon or acronyms. You should not word a question
with a negative, or write it in a way that influences
the response in a particular way. There are many rules to follow in
terms of making questions easy so you can accurately extract
information from them. You will have a lesson on writing survey
questions in the quantitative course of this specialization. I think it really comes down to creating
a survey where most people will be able to understand and answer a very
standard question you devise. When creating surveys, there's a lot of debate in terms of scales
as well, based on how you ask questions. People understand 1
through 10 pretty easily. On a scale of 1 to 10,
how would you rate this? This is pretty uniform
across our population, because we have five fingers on one hand. We have 10 fingers overall for
most of us, then 10 fingers, 10 toes. That's a good measure or
a standard measure, and therefore people understand it
in terms of a survey scale. However, there are cases where you
can Strongly agree, Somewhat agree, Neither agree nor disagree,
Somewhat disagree, and Strongly disagree. You need to put these types of
questions in context to the situation. It's not going to work all the time and sometimes people kind of stretch
things out in terms of their scales. And they make no sense at all, so
as a result the accuracy fails. Another challenge that's really
difficult to address is when people do research on children. Sometimes it's not easy to get and
also the information may not be accurate. Sometimes you can't measure the exact
read on terms of toy preference. There is a lot of really brilliant
companies out there that do research in a particular way on children. They develop experiments and
they get them to respond with happy faces, sad faces in terms of scales. That might be strong enough to
get the response accurately. They also may have to structure
a market research study that goes not only after children but
after their parents. Because parents are ultimately
the purchasers of items for children. You need to look at this from
a lot of different levels. The elderly are the same thing. If you're testing a type of prescription
drug, for example, in terms of preference and in terms of television, there may be a
high viewership of television and you ask that person that fits in a certain age
demographic what their response would be. It might be a little more difficult
in terms of getting the response that you are looking for. Or to getting accuracy across the board. So as you can see,
there are definitely Pros and Cons of doing surveys in a particular way. However, hopefully now you have a better
idea of which tools that you want to work with and conduct a survey for
your quantitative research.