Hello. There are formal accepted terms that
define market research, but since I'm a market research professional, I've
had to adapt to new ways of collecting information and new ways to interpret it,
so I have a less formal definition. For this lesson, we will start by defining
market research in both the formal and informal terms. I will also introduce
an overview of common tools and techniques used in market research. After this lesson, you'll be able to
define market research and also recall and describe common tools and techniques. Let's get started. I'm going to start off with my
definition of market research, which is a scientific or structured
process of gathering very specific data, and analyzing it to best
assess a situation. Now SMR, a leading international
professional market researchers association, has a much more
formal definition of market research. Here it is, research, which includes
all forms of market opinions and social research and data analytics,
is a systematic gathering and interpretation of information about
individuals in organizations. It uses the statistical and
analytical methods and techniques of the applied social
behavioral and data sciences to generate insights and support decision
making by providers of goods and services, governments, nonprofit
organizations, and the general public. Market research often begins
with assessing a problem and matching a research tool to the problem
in order to gather information. You then analyze the information and communicate the analysis
to the stakeholders. The data or information gathering and analytical techniques often
differ based on the situation. When one thinks of market research they
may think about the data collection tools and techniques such as surveys,
focus groups, secondary research, in-depth interviews, and observational research, or you might think
about the market research process itself. There are two basic parts of
the market research process. One part is collecting the data,
the other part is analyzing it. There are also two kinds of
data market researches collect, those that are qualitative and
those that are quantitative. You will learn how to collect and analyze
data further along using various tools. For now lets discuss
some analytical tools. Those most often batted around the market
research world on the qualitative side include, content or text analysis,
and coding or grouping techniques. Qualitative techniques also include
reading cues from facial expression or interpreting how a person reacts to
market research questions or stimuli. On the quantitative side, the analytical
tools include descriptive statistics, hypothesis testing, regression models,
multivaried analyses, data mining, predictive modeling,
and conjoint analysis. There is also software and other methods. You'll learn more about these methods,
tools, and approaches further on. Right now, I'm just going to
provide a quick overview. That wraps up our first look at
a definition of market research and some of the tools used. Now you should be able to
define market research, in the context of today's
business environment, and recall some of the tools and
techniques used for market research.