Welcome. As you think through how to get the client better information so they can make a more informed decision, you have to decide the population you want to study. Usually it starts out with an audience or population you're interested in and from there you take a sampling to measure their response. In this lesson, I will define what a sample is and the many ways to conduct a sample with an audience. After this lesson, you'll be able to consider the various types of samples and apply some basic sampling theory. Let's get started. A sample is just a subset of a population and there are many ways to sample the audience some better than others but each with pros and cons depending on the situation or constraint. We need to define our sample or sampling frame before we apply either a qualitative or quantitative solution. Now, a sampling frame is typically a statement regarding who or what population you intend to research and from whom you want to draw a sample from. It's a guiding statement that helps both you and the client as well as any outside parties such as vendors to understand who the research is focused on. I will try not to get overly involved with sampling theory but I'll explain the basics. Say you have a population and it's your population of interest. It could be cell phone users and cell phone users in the United States. That's a population. There's a certain sampling frame you might be interested in. As a researcher, you may only be interested in young cell phone users or first time cell phone users. Therefore, you need to draw up the sampling frame and the frame could be those age 25 years and younger. Your frame now basically splits your population. A sampling frame is often your filter. Once you have filtered the people that you want to target through the sampling frame, then you can go back and pluck out a subset out of that and perhaps that target group will then form the basis of your research. Every decision that you make from there on from a primary research perspective is based off your chosen sample. This may sound somewhat lofty but the important point is that you need to draw your sample in a particular way. How you draw your sample is a function of quality, budget, timing and other things. Let me give you a sampling example. A company might want to do a study of the smartphone market or they might want to study millennials. There's a big difference obviously between the two but all parties need to be on the same page. A sampling frame product or outcome is typically something like young adults are millennials in the US who currently own a cellular telephone, smartphone or not, or working professionals who desire to improve their employment situation through continued education. Those are sampling frames. They're very specific. Sampling is an important part of the research proposal and planning process. You've had conversations and communications with your client and understand their objective. You also know what their constraints are. Knowing these, whether they're cost or timing or risk factors often helps shape whether or not to do a quick and oftentimes biased sample or whether or not you have the luxury of time and budget and thus go through a larger random sampling approach. A random sample is typically your best methodology. A random sample of certain size will also reduce your error and add precision. And so, you may not care much about that precision because you're not splitting atoms here are you? You're not trying to create a nuclear reaction. Your level of risk, it may be low. Maybe you have two advertising pieces that are very, very similar and you just want to find the winner because half your staff believes that talking pandas are best. The other staff thinks that talking rabbits are better. You actually may just do market research simply to break the tie. As a result, your sample could be the cell phone users but it also could be young cell phone users, millennials or Gen Z cell phone users. And so you run the research through them and you want a high level precision or maybe you just want to break the tie which would be a low level of precision. You might just get 100 people. But you want your staff to believe in the results here. So instead of having 100 people maybe you get 400 people to participate in the survey. As a result, they believe in it and you can move on and produce the talking panda commercial. However, if you've just got a small budget and you have a staff that believes in you and is ready to move on, you might just want to survey 50 people or sample 50 people. You might just take the intern, send them out to the marketplace and say if the first 50 people that you find are 25 years or younger you play them the ad but you've got to rotate the ad. You've got to play one ad versus the other ad and then reverse them. And then you might find of the 50 people, 33 like the talking panda and 17 like the other one. And that might be enough to do it. That's going to be significantly less money and it's going to be significantly less time and you've solved the problem. Your decisions should all be based upon the level of risk that client and potential client wants in the matter.